 Apex Triggers

Trigger are custom apex code which will execute the business logic automatically based certain event
Implement Complex logic, complex validation
Triggers can be fired on both ‘before and after ‘ operation on the specified object.
Trigger events

Before insert: The event fire the trigger before inserting new records inside the object.
Requirement
Assign the values to the field(shipping address==billing address)
Custom validations
Duplication process
Object level permissions.
Before update
We can fire a trigger on before updating an existing record in the object.
Custom validations.
Before delete
This event will fire trigger before deleting any record from the object.
Object level permissions
Lookup field value
After insert
  This event will fire the trigger on ‘after inserting a record inside the object
Send email alert
Share records
Assign the records to the owner.
After update
This event will ifre the trigger after updating the existing records inside the object
Once oppo is update we can send email notifications
Rollu summary fields
Custom assigment
After Delete
This event will fire the trigger ‘after deleting an existing record in object.
Child records
After Undelete
This event will fire the trigger re-strong the deleted records.

Trigger—> ApexTrigger object

Context Variables: identify the current status of the trigger, so that we can segrate the code to be executed .

Trigger.isinsert
Trigger.isupdate
Trigger.isDelete
Trigger.isundelete
Trigger.isBefore
Trigger.isAfter
Trigger.old : Contains the list of existing records.
Trigger.Oldmap
Trigger.New: which contains the current context records int he form of the list of collection, All newly inserting records will get placed inside the Trigger.new for the validations, this list is only available in insert, update,undelete triggers.
             
Trigger.newmap
Order of execution
Load the Original record(insert)
Override the old record values with the new values
Execute all before trigger
Run the system & user defined validation rules
Save the record but it will not commit the record in database
Execute all after Triggers
Execute the auto-response rules
Work flow rules,processs builder, flows
Roll-up summary field
Evlauate criteria based sharing rules
Commit all dml operation
Post commit (sending and email)

What id: Account, opportunity
Whoid: Contact, lead
